Hey there everyone.
Hitesh here and welcome
to the core Python training
that we are going through.
In case you haven't yet,
posted a review.
Please do that.
We really need that.
A lot of people, sometimes try
to push us down and your kind words
in the, in the review section
really help us in motivating
and putting more content as well.
Anyways, let's go ahead and get
started with the next topic
in the Python, which is tuples.
Now there are a lot of ways, how
you say it out, some call it
as tuples, which is also good.
Some, some say as tuples,
which is also good.
And I still haven't made my
mind what to call them.
I usually sometimes call them
as tuples, but again,
don't judge me based on that.
We will just study
and learn about them.
It is actually a really fun topic.
You're going to
absolutely enjoy this.
And these are used quite a lot.
Let me take you on the screen itself
and this, is where we
are going to go with that.
So for this let's go ahead
and create a new file in itself.
This is going to be chapter,
seven, I guess.
Yep, pretty accurate there.
All right, so let me bring your
focus entirely on the screen itself.
Hope that's great.
Now let's go ahead and study
about the tuples.
What are tuples?
So just like we have been going
through with a lot of data types,
like string was one of them,
so now we have another one
of the data type which is tuples.
Tuples.
There we go.
That's how we say it.
Now tuples comes with this kind
of a thing, known as parenthesis.
And yes, in the world of programming,
brackets have their own importance.
This is known as parenthesis.
We do have another one which
we call them as brackets.
Yes, these square ones.
And we have another one
which is known as curly braces
or braces in general.
So yes, they have their own names,
parentheses, brackets and braces.
Anyways, we are not here
to talk about that.
This is tuple.
So anytime somebody says
tuple, that means we have
to use these parentheses.
And they have really strange way
of working with them.
They're very interesting.
They are immutable.
Yep.
They cannot be changed.
That's the only thing you
need to know about it.
All right, so let's just say we
are going to call this one as
masala spices, Quite spicy.
And whenever you want
to define tuples, just go ahead
and use parenthesis and I'll shut
up my AI agent so that we
can Talk about the code.
Not that.
Let's just say we want
to have some spices.
So, cardamom is going
to be one of them.
Then probably some
of the spices, name even you don't
know that is also fine.
We will use clove and we
will use, cinnamon.
So these are my fixed
ingredients, immutable.
They cannot be changed ever.
Now, sometimes you want
to unpack them, so
this is how you create them.
But sometimes there is an object
which is already being created
and now you want
to extract values out of it.
So, for example, all of my
values are in masala spices.
Now I want to add them
into variables.
Spice one, spice two, spice three.
How do we do that?
That's actually very
interesting and an easy syntax.
You can just use tuples again.
And this time I'm going to call this
one as spice one, and then spice
two and then spice three.
The only thing I have to be careful
is that I should know that what kind
of and what amount of values are
coming in, I should know the number.
So.
So that I can allocate a variable
for each one of them.
And then all I have to do is
simply say print and let's
just say go for like this.
And we are going to call this
one as main masala spices.
And then I can just use variables.
So I can just call this
one as spice one.
And then separated by comma,
we will have spice two.
Of course, separated by comma,
we will have the spice three.
And that's it.
Now we can run this file, clean
this up, and I can call my Python
interpreter that, hey, Python 3,
I want to run a file, chapter 7.
And there we go, we got all
the values being extracted, or
as we call them, as we call them, as
unpacking in the world of this.
Now, this is Tuple actually
gives you a lot of superpower
in the Python, especially superpower
like this, for example.
Let's just say we have
some special ratios.
We are making a good T.
So we have ginger ratio.
Ratio, as well as we have, cardamom.
Cardamom.
Yep, that's correct.
Cardamom ratio.
And we are calling this
ratio as two is to one.
So this is my ratio and I
call this as two is to one.
So yes, you can actually
directly have the variables.
So these are two variables.
And separated by comma, I am able
to allocate these variables.
So two will automatically go
to ginger, one will
automatically go to cardamom.
And I'm able to do this
because behind the scene,
this Tuple is responsible
for this, yes, I do agree.
We are not writing it in this format.
We are writing it directly.
But behind the scene, Python
gives me this ability is all
in all because of the tuples.
So just remember that.
And yes, we can actually
go ahead and use that.
There is another
interesting part of it.
First, let me go ahead
and print, a string here.
There we go.
And we're going to call this one
as ratio is for the G for ginger.
I hope you understand.
I'll write this in short, ginger.
And we're going to use G is
in this ratio, and C for cardamom
is going to be
in the ratio of cardamom ratio.
So we can see that we have all these
ratios being nicely available to us.
I can print this out.
No worries.
I will do that.
But what's really interesting now is
that I can actually flip the ratio.
I can just go ahead and call
this hey, ginger ratio
and the cardamom ratio.
The value of them can
be switched as well.
So first of all, I'll just
say cardamom ratio as well as
now the ginger ratio.
So the values, Python is really smart
that will automatically put
the cardamom ratio's value into,
ginger, and the ginger ratio
will go into the cardamom ratio.
This is one unique behavior
of Python that you can swap
the variables just like that.
Pretty interesting.
And now if I check the ratio
after this, obviously the ratio
will be flipped, but I'll still
run the program and we'll
show you what's happening.
So we can see, previously the ginger
ratio was two is to one, ginger
to cardamom, and now we have ginger
to cardamom ratio as 1 is to 2.
Pretty interesting, isn't it?
This is one of the really neat trick
that is being used quite a lot.
You will see this a lot.
That variable swiping doesn't
need a third variable.
We can just do it like that.
Told you.
Python is a language which
makes life lot easier.
Now, one more thing that I would
love to show you is membership.
Yes, you can test the membership
just like you test the membership,
in a club.
Just like this, we can actually do
print and I can say is, we have to
make it exactly same in the tuple.
So I'm calling this a, ginger ratio.
I have to call it exactly
like ginger ratio.
So here it's not really good.
This is a better tuple.
So let's go ahead and check this.
So we would love to first check
whether ginger is in masala spices.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So we'll say that is ginger.
Ginger is ginger in.
Come on, masala spices.
And then I can just use my variable
and then I have to mention
exactly what I'm asking for.
And this needs to be all
case sensitive and stuff.
So I'll go ahead and say ginger just
like this in and then name of this.
So masala spices again,
let me just expand this.
So remember, this is
the variable I'm testing for.
It's not a variable on
to say it can be a variable.
But this is my string that I'm
checking whether it is available
in masala spices or not.
So I'll just open up this
and show you what's going on.
And that's the beauty about it
when I don't show up myself
on the screen that you can
see and totally focus on this.
So, right now it's false, obviously,
because it doesn't exist.
Now let's just say if I
check for cinnamon, is
cinnamon available here?
So let's just check for cinnamon.
We'll ask the question
for cinnamon as well.
And if I run the program
again, this is true.
Now what happens if I go
ahead and check for a cinnamon
with a capital C?
If I try this, it is false.
So just wanted to show you
that yes, this is investigative
study, that it is case sensitive.
You need to ask that what
you are looking for
in the tuple as availability.
This is known as a membership
testing or membership test,
whatever you want to call it.
This whole thing is dependent
on this keyword which is in.
In works with the tuple.
And that is it.
That is all that I wanted
to teach you about the tuple.
Eventually you will learn more
about it as you will use it.